Hi, my name is Mera Hoffman and this is
part three of our video series for yoga
for back pain. In this video, we'll be
focusing on some great techniques to
help with shoulder and neck pain,
focusing more on the upper back this
time. And we have a fun little giveaway
today from Sunshine Pillows.
This awesome little ergonomic pillow.
So, if you travel a lot or um you know
you're on the airplane or in the car,
you need to take a little nap, but you
don't want your neck just totally
cranked to one side, this is a great
little pillow. So, check out the details
below for how to enter that contest and
sign up for our newsletter. So, we're
going to begin just with some really
gentle stretches for your arms and to
help open up the shoulders. I know a lot
of us sit at the computer desk quite a
bit. So, I'm going to start by just
bringing my right arm across my chest
straight across. I'm going to use my
left arm to help stabilize. Some people
like to casp or clasp the arm. Um, you
know, just at the elbow joint of the
opposite arm. So, whatever feels good if
you want to hold it. And really just
focusing on breathing and opening up the
back of the shoulder blades. So, in
between the spine and that juncture.
Just feels really nice to get a nice
stretch here.
And after holding for a couple breaths,
we're going to release the arm and
switch directions.
And I always encourage you with any yoga
move, a few things to remember is
focusing on your breath is really such a
wonderful treat to help relax and tune
yourself into the move. And then of
course, if anything does not feel
comfortable or good to your body, don't
do it. Um, we're here to help you, but
you have to also help yourself by
listening and tuning in and not doing
anything that's going to push yourself
too far.
And we're going to exhale, releasing the
arm. Inhale. I'm going to lift the right
arm all the way up to the sky. And then
exhale, folding those fingertips down.
Now, you can see my elbows really up in
the sky here. And I'm gonna bring my
opposite arm up to that elbow just to
help extend that stretch a little bit
more deeply.
Opening up the shoulders.
And take a few deep breaths here.
Really focusing on releasing any tension
into your arms, into your shoulders.
And we'll inhale both arms up. And then
I'm going to exhale, switch hands. So
this time the left fingers curl
downwards. The right hand comes to the
left elbow. Getting a nice stretch and
opening here. So when we're at the desk
or at the computer, just all these
muscles in our neck and shoulders
tend to get tight just from chronic
overuse and sitting in that position for
so long.
And we'll inhale both arms up. Exhale
down.
We'll toss in just a few shoulder rolls
cuz they feel nice and yummy. So, you
can place your hands on your knees and
we'll inhale the shoulders up to the
ears. Exhale rolling them back and down.
You may notice some kind of crunchy
poppy noises. As long as it feels good,
keep on doing it. If it doesn't feel as
good, maybe don't make as dramatic of
circles with your shoulders. So the
inhale is bringing them up and with the
exhale you're kind of rolling them back
and down. So you can see I'm starting to
open up my chest here with this movement
and exhale down.
And so now we'll just slowly begin to
make our way down onto the mat. We'll
begin by laying face up.
We're going to come into matsa fish
pose. So begin by drawing the legs
together and then we're going to rock
from one side to the other. Tucking the
hands, palms facing down underneath the
body. So my hands are flat against the
ground. Really trying to bring my elbows
in together. And then also walk my
fingertips down towards the toes.
When you're ready, we're going to inhale
and sit up to look at your toes. So you
can see that my base is now on my
forearms.
And as you exhale, you're going to
slowly
look back behind you. And you can rock
down just a little bit. So the top of
your head comes to touch the floor. Not
a lot of weight on your head here, less
than 20%.
So really, it's just kind of like an
energetic touch.
As you sit here, taking some nice deep
inhalations, really bringing
oxygen and vitality into the lungs,
expanding the ribs,
and as you exhale, letting go of any
tension, getting a nice bright opening
to the chest.
Can work on squeezing the shoulders back
behind you
and just bringing your awareness onto
the breath.
When you're ready, inhale, curling the
chin in. Exhale, rolling down and
untucking the arms. And we'll just take
a couple breaths in shavasana so you can
really enjoy and reflect on the
sensations from matsa fish pose.
It's a really nice heart opener and
helps correct rounded shoulders.
So if you sit at a desk a lot, this is
going to be a really wonderful pose for
you.
[Music]
Just slowly coming back into the room.
We'll turn over
to work on cobra pose, bujangasana.
So we'll begin
just with basic cobra. So you can bring
your chin onto the ground and you're
going to tuck the hands underneath the
shoulder blades. The fingertips are
facing forward. Bringing the elbows
back. Bringing the shoulders kind of up
and down. We'll inhale, pressing our
bodies up. But you don't want to use a
lot of weight into the hands. So really,
this movement is coming from me
contracting my spinal muscles to pull my
back up. And then I'm going to extend
that movement by looking up as well. So
just like a cobra, how it's
holds its body and its head up high.
Getting a nice chest opener here. Again,
staying with your deep breaths.
[Music]
And when you're ready, we'll exhale
down.
And you can turn your head to one side
and make a little pillow. Just let the
full length of the spine relax. So,
letting the low back relax,
letting the mid back relax, letting the
upper back relax.
We're going to come into cobra two more
times. Each time doing a little bit
different of a variation.
So when you're ready, bringing the chin
back to the ground, the hands underneath
the shoulder blades, and then you can
see I'm kind of bringing the legs
together, too, to help create stability
and support. I'm going to inhale up
again just like we did the first time,
but this time I'm going to use my hands
to push just a little bit more. So now
I'm really getting a nice bigger opening
throughout the length of my spine. You
can see the elbows are still down and
tucked. Shoulder blade is down and
tucked
looking up
and exhaling down. We'll make a pillow
on the opposite side. So, turning your
cheek to the other direction,
letting the legs relax, letting your
back relax, breathing into your abdomen,
letting the whole spine have a little
bit of a rest before we move on.
And then coming back to our center
starting point again. This time we're
going to bring the legs together,
engaging the low back, but instead of
putting the hands here underneath the
shoulders, we're going to interlace the
fingers behind our back. Now, if you
can't reach your hands, go back to our
first cobra. If you can reach your
hands, we're going to inhale and bring
the hands together. Really trying to
work the hands down towards the feet.
Engaging all the muscles of the back to
help lift the upper body.
Taking some nice deep breaths here. You
can experiment. Does it feel better to
raise the hands up a little bit further?
How does that change the stretch and
move for you?
One more deep breath here.
and exhale rolling down.
So that concludes our third video
focusing more on neck and upper back
pain. Make sure that you subscribe to
the Psych Truth YouTube channel so you
can be in the know when we post the
future videos. Again, my name is Mera
Hoffman and you can find out more about
me and my practice at mirahoffman.com.
Thank you.
[Music]